README.md, before:

# Banking Account Management APIs

This is a simple banking API for account management.

## How to Run

1.  **Build the project:**
    ```bash
    mvn clean install
    ```

2.  **Run the application:**
    ```bash
    java -jar target/account-management-apis-1.0.0.jar
    ```

The application will start on port 8081.

## API Documentation

API documentation is available via Swagger UI at:
[http://localhost:8081/swagger-ui.html](http://localhost:8081/swagger-ui.html)
```bash
java -jar target/account-management-apis-1.0.0.jar --spring.profiles.active=prod
```

The application will start on `http://localhost:8080`

## 📚 API Documentation

### Interactive Documentation

Access Swagger UI at: `http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html`

### OpenAPI Specification

Raw OpenAPI spec available at: `http://localhost:8080/v3/api-docs`

## 🔒 Security Features

### Authentication & Authorization

- **OAuth2 JWT Tokens**: All endpoints require valid JWT tokens
- **Scope-based Authorization**: Fine-grained permissions using OAuth2 scopes
- **Customer ID Validation**: Ensures customers can only access their own data
- **API Key Authentication**: Additional security layer

### Security Headers

The application automatically adds security headers:
- `X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff`
- `X-Frame-Options: DENY`
- `X-XSS-Protection: 1; mode=block`
- `Strict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000; includeSubDomains`
- `Content-Security-Policy: default-src 'self'`

### Data Protection

- **Account Number Masking**: Sensitive data masked in responses (`****1234`)
- **Input Sanitization**: Protection against injection attacks
- **PCI DSS Compliance**: Secure handling of financial data

## 📊 Audit & Compliance

### Audit Logging

All operations are logged with:
- **Activity Type**: What operation was performed
- **Customer ID**: Who performed the operation
- **Request ID**: Unique identifier for request tracing
- **Timestamp**: When the operation occurred
- **Result**: Success/Failure status
- **Details**: Additional context information

### Log Categories

- **AUDIT**: Business operations and account activities
- **SECURITY**: Security events and authorization failures
- **ACCESS**: API access patterns and performance metrics

### Compliance Features

- **SOX Compliance**: 7-year audit trail retention
- **PCI DSS**: Data masking and secure processing
- **Regulatory Reporting**: Structured logs for compliance reporting

## ⚡ Performance Features

### Caching Strategy

- **Balance Inquiries**: 1-minute TTL using Caffeine cache
- **Cache Keys**: Combination of account ID and request parameters
- **Cache Statistics**: Monitoring and metrics available

### Async Processing

- **Non-blocking Operations**: CompletableFuture for improved throughput
- **Thread Pool Configuration**: Optimized for concurrent requests

## 🧪 Testing

### Unit Tests

```bash
mvn test
```

### Integration Tests

```bash
mvn verify
```

### Test Coverage

```bash
mvn jacoco:report
```

## 📈 Monitoring & Observability

### Health Checks

- **Application Health**: `GET /actuator/health`
- **Detailed Health**: Requires authentication
- **Kubernetes Probes**: Liveness and readiness endpoints

### Metrics

- **Prometheus Metrics**: Available at `/actuator/prometheus`
- **JVM Metrics**: Memory, threads, garbage collection
- **Custom Metrics**: API calls, cache hit rates, audit events

### Logging

Structured logging with correlation IDs:
```json
{
  "timestamp": "2024-01-15T10:30:00.000Z",
  "level": "INFO",
  "requestId": "550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000",
  "customerId": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000",
  "message": "Account created successfully",
  "activityType": "ACCOUNT_CREATED"
}
```

## 🐛 Error Handling

### Banking Error Codes

| Code | Description | HTTP Status |
|------|-------------|-------------|
| `BANK_A001` | Authentication Required | 401 |
| `BANK_A002` | Customer Authorization Failed | 403 |
| `BANK_E001` | Invalid Account Type | 400 |
| `BANK_R001` | Account Not Found | 404 |
| `BANK_C001` | Account Already Exists | 409 |
| `BANK_B001` | Insufficient Funds | 422 |
| `BANK_L001` | Rate Limit Exceeded | 429 |
| `BANK_S001` | Internal System Error | 500 |

### Error Response Format

```json
{
  \"type\": \"https://api.banking.com/problems/account-not-found\",
  \"title\": \"Account Not Found\",
  \"status\": 404,
  \"detail\": \"The account with ID '550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000' was not found\",
  \"code\": \"BANK_R001\",
  \"timestamp\": \"2024-01-15T10:30:00Z\",
  \"traceId\": \"987fcdeb-51a2-43d1-9f12-345678901234\"
}
```

## 🔄 Rate Limiting

### Default Limits

- **Per Hour**: 1,000 requests
- **Per Minute**: 100 requests
- **Per Customer**: Individual rate limits applied

### Rate Limit Headers

```
X-RateLimit-Limit: 1000
X-RateLimit-Remaining: 999
X-RateLimit-Reset: 1640995200
```

## 🚀 Deployment

### Docker Support

```dockerfile
FROM openjdk:21-jre-slim
COPY target/account-management-apis-1.0.0.jar app.jar
EXPOSE 8080
ENTRYPOINT [\"java\", \"-jar\", \"/app.jar\"]
```

### Kubernetes Deployment

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: banking-api
spec:
  replicas: 3
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: banking-api
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: banking-api
        image: banking-api:latest
        ports:
        - containerPort: 8080
        livenessProbe:
          httpGet:
            path: /actuator/health/liveness
            port: 8080
        readinessProbe:
          httpGet:
            path: /actuator/health/readiness
            port: 8080
```

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Follow coding standards and add tests
4. Ensure all tests pass and coverage is maintained
5. Submit a pull request with detailed description

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the Banking API License. See the LICENSE file for details.

## 📞 Support

For technical support and API questions:
- **Email**: api-support@banking.com
- **Documentation**: [API Documentation Portal]
- **Status Page**: [System Status Page]

---

**⚠️ Important Security Notes:**

1. Never commit sensitive configuration values
2. Use environment variables for secrets
3. Enable HTTPS in production environments
4. Regularly rotate API keys and certificates
5. Monitor audit logs for suspicious activities
6. Follow PCI DSS guidelines for production deployment

Commit message:

Add detailed API documentation generation exercise and sample data usage in README.md

README.md, after:

# Banking Account Management APIs

This is a simple banking API for account management.

## How to Run

1.  **Build the project:**
    ```bash
    mvn clean install
    ```

2.  **Run the application:**
    ```bash
    java -jar target/account-management-apis-1.0.0.jar
    ```

The application will start on port 8081.

## API Documentation

API documentation is available via Swagger UI at:
[http://localhost:8081/swagger-ui.html](http://localhost:8081/swagger-ui.html)

## Sample Data

The application creates sample data on startup. You can use the following customer IDs to interact with the API:

- `customer-001`
- `customer-002`
- `customer-003`

### Example: List accounts for a customer

```powershell
Invoke-RestMethod -Uri "http://localhost:8081/api/accounts" -Headers @{"X-Customer-ID" = "customer-001"}
```
```bash
java -jar target/account-management-apis-1.0.0.jar --spring.profiles.active=prod
```

The application will start on `http://localhost:8080`

## 📚 API Documentation

### Interactive Documentation

Access Swagger UI at: `http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html`

### OpenAPI Specification

Raw OpenAPI spec available at: `http://localhost:8080/v3/api-docs`

## 🔒 Security Features

### Authentication & Authorization

- **OAuth2 JWT Tokens**: All endpoints require valid JWT tokens
- **Scope-based Authorization**: Fine-grained permissions using OAuth2 scopes
- **Customer ID Validation**: Ensures customers can only access their own data
- **API Key Authentication**: Additional security layer

### Security Headers

The application automatically adds security headers:
- `X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff`
- `X-Frame-Options: DENY`
- `X-XSS-Protection: 1; mode=block`
- `Strict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000; includeSubDomains`
- `Content-Security-Policy: default-src 'self'`

### Data Protection

- **Account Number Masking**: Sensitive data masked in responses (`****1234`)
- **Input Sanitization**: Protection against injection attacks
- **PCI DSS Compliance**: Secure handling of financial data

## 📊 Audit & Compliance

### Audit Logging

All operations are logged with:
- **Activity Type**: What operation was performed
- **Customer ID**: Who performed the operation
- **Request ID**: Unique identifier for request tracing
- **Timestamp**: When the operation occurred
- **Result**: Success/Failure status
- **Details**: Additional context information

### Log Categories

- **AUDIT**: Business operations and account activities
- **SECURITY**: Security events and authorization failures
- **ACCESS**: API access patterns and performance metrics

### Compliance Features

- **SOX Compliance**: 7-year audit trail retention
- **PCI DSS**: Data masking and secure processing
- **Regulatory Reporting**: Structured logs for compliance reporting

## ⚡ Performance Features

### Caching Strategy

- **Balance Inquiries**: 1-minute TTL using Caffeine cache
- **Cache Keys**: Combination of account ID and request parameters
- **Cache Statistics**: Monitoring and metrics available

### Async Processing

- **Non-blocking Operations**: CompletableFuture for improved throughput
- **Thread Pool Configuration**: Optimized for concurrent requests

## 🧪 Testing

### Unit Tests

```bash
mvn test
```

### Integration Tests

```bash
mvn verify
```

### Test Coverage

```bash
mvn jacoco:report
```

## 📈 Monitoring & Observability

### Health Checks

- **Application Health**: `GET /actuator/health`
- **Detailed Health**: Requires authentication
- **Kubernetes Probes**: Liveness and readiness endpoints

### Metrics

- **Prometheus Metrics**: Available at `/actuator/prometheus`
- **JVM Metrics**: Memory, threads, garbage collection
- **Custom Metrics**: API calls, cache hit rates, audit events

### Logging

Structured logging with correlation IDs:
```json
{
  "timestamp": "2024-01-15T10:30:00.000Z",
  "level": "INFO",
  "requestId": "550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000",
  "customerId": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000",
  "message": "Account created successfully",
  "activityType": "ACCOUNT_CREATED"
}
```

## 🐛 Error Handling

### Banking Error Codes

| Code | Description | HTTP Status |
|------|-------------|-------------|
| `BANK_A001` | Authentication Required | 401 |
| `BANK_A002` | Customer Authorization Failed | 403 |
| `BANK_E001` | Invalid Account Type | 400 |
| `BANK_R001` | Account Not Found | 404 |
| `BANK_C001` | Account Already Exists | 409 |
| `BANK_B001` | Insufficient Funds | 422 |
| `BANK_L001` | Rate Limit Exceeded | 429 |
| `BANK_S001` | Internal System Error | 500 |

### Error Response Format

```json
{
  \"type\": \"https://api.banking.com/problems/account-not-found\",
  \"title\": \"Account Not Found\",
  \"status\": 404,
  \"detail\": \"The account with ID '550e8400-e29b-41d4-a716-446655440000' was not found\",
  \"code\": \"BANK_R001\",
  \"timestamp\": \"2024-01-15T10:30:00Z\",
  \"traceId\": \"987fcdeb-51a2-43d1-9f12-345678901234\"
}
```

## 🔄 Rate Limiting

### Default Limits

- **Per Hour**: 1,000 requests
- **Per Minute**: 100 requests
- **Per Customer**: Individual rate limits applied

### Rate Limit Headers

```
X-RateLimit-Limit: 1000
X-RateLimit-Remaining: 999
X-RateLimit-Reset: 1640995200
```

## 🚀 Deployment

### Docker Support

```dockerfile
FROM openjdk:21-jre-slim
COPY target/account-management-apis-1.0.0.jar app.jar
EXPOSE 8080
ENTRYPOINT [\"java\", \"-jar\", \"/app.jar\"]
```

### Kubernetes Deployment

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: banking-api
spec:
  replicas: 3
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: banking-api
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: banking-api
        image: banking-api:latest
        ports:
        - containerPort: 8080
        livenessProbe:
          httpGet:
            path: /actuator/health/liveness
            port: 8080
        readinessProbe:
          httpGet:
            path: /actuator/health/readiness
            port: 8080
```

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Follow coding standards and add tests
4. Ensure all tests pass and coverage is maintained
5. Submit a pull request with detailed description

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the Banking API License. See the LICENSE file for details.

## 📞 Support

For technical support and API questions:
- **Email**: api-support@banking.com
- **Documentation**: [API Documentation Portal]
- **Status Page**: [System Status Page]

---

**⚠️ Important Security Notes:**

1. Never commit sensitive configuration values
2. Use environment variables for secrets
3. Enable HTTPS in production environments
4. Regularly rotate API keys and certificates
5. Monitor audit logs for suspicious activities
6. Follow PCI DSS guidelines for production deployment
